Additional requirements on SDP files of JPEG XS Senders (#19)
AMWA-TV/bcp-006-01: docs/NMOS With JPEG XS.md

### Senders

For Nodes transmitting JPEG XS using the RTP payload mapping defined by RFC 9134, the Sender resource MUST indicate `urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp` or one of its subclassifications for the `transport` attribute.
Sender resources provide no indication of media type or format, since this is described by the associated Flow resource.

The SDP file at the `manifest_href` MUST comply with the requirements of RFC 9134.

> Additionally, the format-specific parameters defined by RFC 9134 are made REQUIRED in the same circumstances that a corresponding Flow attribute MUST be included, in order that the information provided to an NMOS Controller through a Flow is also provided to a Receiver through the SDP file.

Author: Conformance language lawyer needed... I'm not sure if the "Flow attribute MUST be included" would be better as just "Flow attribute is included", since this is talking _about_ a requirement expressed above rather than expressing that requirement?

Reviewer: What about this ... but I'm not a lawyer :)

"Additionally, the format-specific parameters defined by RFC 9134 corresponding to REQUIRED Flow attributes, as per the IS-04 JSON schemas, are made REQUIRED and MUST be included, in order that the information provided to an NMOS Controller through a Flow is also provided to a Receiver through the SDP file."

Author: Two small objections to that wording.

First, that default values for some properties in the schemas mean that properties like `interlace_mode` that aren't listed as `"required"` effectively always communicate information even when omitted in the Flow resource, along with the similar scenario in SDP for some optional parameters like `interlace`.

Second that we want to apply this also to the attributes defined in this spec, of course. 🙂

This may all be irrelevant if we consider John's comments in the other thread on this PR and decide that the benefit of doing this at all is outweighed by the costs.

Reviewer: Agreed I forgot to mention " as per the IS-04 JSON schemas **and this specification**" .

I think that the understanding about optional properties with a default value in JSON schema is that they are required when a value other that the default is to be used.

Agreed that we may choose to keep the SDP requirements of the RFC without adding more in BCP-006-?? documents.

Author: 👍

So if you're relying on the default value in the NMOS Flow, you may still require an explicit value in the SDP, which I tried and failed to capture in my wording too. It's tricksy!

Reviewer: What about this new flavor. An attempt to focus on providing same REQUIRED information to both Controller and Receiver. After this normative paragraph we can provide non-normative examples of what it means for JPEG-XS.

"Additionally, in order to provide to a Receiver, through SDP file format-specific parameters, the information provided to an NMOS Controller through REQUIRED Flow attributes, format-specific parameters defined by RFC 9134 are made REQUIRED in the same circumstances that corresponding Flow attributes are made REQUIRED by IS-04 JSON schemas or this specification."

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, the SDP file MUST convey, so far as the defined parameters allow, the same information about the stream as conveyed by the Source, Flow and Sender attributes.
```

> This means that `profile`, `level`, `sublevel`, `sampling`, `depth`, `width`, `height`, `exactframerate`, `colorimetry`, `interlace` and `segmented` are all REQUIRED depending on the properties of the JPEG XS stream.

Author: After review with @jonathan-r-thorpe, I will try spelling this out to make it clearer in what circumstances `profile`, `level` and `sublevel` MUST be omitted, and the same for `interlace` and `segmented`.

Author: I'm a little uncomfortable expanding on the conformance language of the previous statement "format-specific parameters [...] are made REQUIRED" but doing so does make really clear what Sender implementers need to do to achieve BCP-006-01 compliance.

Suggestion uses conformance language, but could also be written as statements of fact, "is included"...

On balance, I think using the conformance language makes it simpler to develop incontrovertible test cases, and doesn't lead to questions about e.g. `RANGE` and `PAR` if we were to introduce NMOS Flow attributes equivalent to these in the future (though the previous statement would give a good hint on intent / best practice...).

```suggestion

- Each of the `profile`, `level` and `sublevel` format-specific parameters MUST be included with the correct value unless it is Unrestricted.
- The correct `sampling`, `depth`, `width`, `height`, `exactframerate` and `colorimetry` MUST always be included.
- The `interlace` and `segmented` parameters MUST be included or omitted to correctly indicate the scanning/interlace mode.
```

Reviewer 2: i'll note that this is the first time I know of where AMWA has tried to force a requirement into the SDP of a stream beyond those requirements in the underlying specifications.  I can see the logic from the perspective of the controller attempting to utilise the capabilities language to avoid connecting an inappropriate stream to a receiver, but the controller also has access to the sender's flow resources in the registry.  the only reason these things need to be added to the SDP seems to be to accommodate a receiver implementation which requires them, while I believe these "extra" parameters are in the video stream header boxes and perfectly available to the receiver after it joins the stream, the only advantage of putting them into the SDP would be to allow a receiver to reject the inappropriate stream without joining it.

Author: > the only advantage of putting them into the SDP would be to allow a receiver to reject the inappropriate stream without joining it.

I think your assessment is accurate, John. How useful is this? It enables a Receiver to produce a meaningful error status for both immediate activations and scheduled activations. If that's the only advantage is that worthwhile?
How onerous is this for Senders if they are already required to have this information in the NMOS resources? That may depend on whether the NMOS Node is a proxy for a device that produces the SDP file.

Author: Discussed in activity group call yesterday.

> the only advantage of putting them into the SDP would be to allow a receiver to reject the inappropriate stream without joining it.

@David-P-B made the point that if there is sufficient information in the SDP data the Receiver can configure a decoder before joining the stream. @jmailhot showed that TR-08 includes all the optional parameters in its example (apart from `profile` which @tbr thought was an oversight), which we take as best practice.

Reviewer 3: Originally I believe `profile` was omitted because TR-08 only used the High444.12 profile. However, for 4:2:0 another profile must be used, hence TR-08 allows either `High444.12` or `High420.12`. I believe we forgot to update the SDP example (in TR-08).

Sender resources provide no indication of media type or format, since this is described by the associated Flow resource.

The SDP file at the `manifest_href` MUST comply with the requirements of RFC 9134.

> Additionally, the SDP file MUST convey, so far as the defined parameters allow, the same information about the stream as conveyed by the Source, Flow and Sender attributes defined by this specification and IS-04.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, the SDP file needs to convey, so far as the defined parameters allow, the same information about the stream as conveyed by the Source, Flow and Sender attributes defined by this specification and IS-04.
```

Therefore:

- Each of the `profile`, `level` and `sublevel` format-specific parameters MUST be included with the correct value unless it is Unrestricted.

> - The correct `sampling`, `depth`, `width`, `height`, `exactframerate` and `colorimetry` MUST always be included.

Author: ```suggestion
- The correct `sampling`, `depth`, `width`, `height`, `exactframerate` and `colorimetry` MUST be included in all cases.
```

## JPEG XS IS-05 Senders and Receivers

Connection Management using IS-05 proceeds in exactly the same manner as for any other stream format carried within RTP.
The SDP file at the **/transportfile** endpoint on Senders MUST comply with the same requirements described for the SDP file at the IS-04 Sender `manifest_href`.

An SDP file provided in the `transport_file` attribute of a `PATCH` request on the **/staged** endpoint of Receivers MUST also comply with RFC 9134 and, if appropriate, ST 2110-22.

> Note that Receivers MUST handle such SDP files that do not comply with the additional requirements described for Senders.

Author: ```suggestion
However, a Receiver MUST handle such an SDP file that does not comply with the additional requirements described for Senders.
When processing a request, a Receiver SHOULD use the parameters in the SDP file to evaluate if it would not be capable of consuming the stream.
```

## JPEG XS IS-05 Senders and Receivers

Connection Management using IS-05 proceeds in exactly the same manner as for any other stream format carried within RTP.

The SDP file at the **/transportfile** endpoint on an IS-05 Sender MUST comply with the same requirements described for the SDP file at the IS-04 Sender `manifest_href`.

A `PATCH` request on the **/staged** endpoint of an IS-05 Receiver can contain an SDP file in the `transport_file` attribute.
The SDP file for a JPEG XS stream is expected to comply with RFC 9134 and, if appropriate, ST 2110-22.
It need not comply with the additional requirements specified for SDP files at Senders.

The Receiver SHOULD evaluate whether it would not be capable of consuming the stream and reject the request if so.

> The Receiver SHOULD NOT reject the request just because it is unable to assess the stream compatibility, for example when the SDP file does not include some of the optional parameters defined by RFC 9134.

Author: ```suggestion
If the Receiver is not capable of consuming the stream described by the SDP file, it SHOULD reject the request.
If it is unable to assess the stream compatibility, for example when the SDP file does not include some of the optional parameters defined by RFC 9134, it MAY accept the request.
```
